## The Imitation Game

This week on Data Skeptic, we begin the episode with a skit performance to introduce the topic of this show: The Imitation Game. We open with a scene in the distant future. The year is 2050, and company called Shamony is announcing their new product, Ada, the most advanced artificial intelligence agent. To prove its superiority, the lead scientist announces that it will use the Turing Test that Alan Turing proposed in 1950. During this we introduce Turing’s “objections” outlined in his famous paper, “Computing Machinery and Intelligence.”

Most of us has probably heard of the Turing Test. Suppose an interrogator is communicating by keyboard with entities that are hidden from view. Some are people and some are computers. The interrogator has to guess which is which. If a computer manages to fool the interrogator, it can be said to think.

At least that’s the way the meaning of the Turing Test is usually put. But it’s not the Turing Test, it’s the Imitation Game, which involves a human and a machine imitating a human. While most people associate the game with the idea of testing the limits of machines, Turing was actually interested in answering the question: Can a machine think? Midway through his paper, Turing wrote, "The original question, 'Can machines think?,' I believe to be too meaningless to deserve discussion." That’s a murky question. Turing believed we can replace that question with a machine that can play this Imitation Game. 

The Imitation Game involves a judge engaging in two conversations - one with a human acting natural and one with a machine pretending to be human. But what does it mean to imitate? To explore that question, we invited a professional performer and improv instructor, Holly Laurent, on our show. 

We also discuss alternative ways to measure a machine’s humanity. For this, another guest, Peter Clark, joins us on the show to discuss the Winograd Schema Challenge, which tests common sense reasoning about the world. The challenge involves a small reading comprehension test about common sense knowledge. For example, “Tom threw his schoolbag down to Ray after he reached the [top/bottom] of the stairs. Who reached the [top/bottom] of the stairs?” Another example would be: “Thomson visited Cooper’s grave in 1765. At that date he had been [dead/travelling] for five years. Who had been [dead/travelling] for five years?”
